Cloud and Enterprise Docs (#5575)
treeverse/lakeFS: docs/cloud/private-link.md

---
layout: default
title: Private Link
description: Private Link enables lakeFS Cloud to interact with your infrastructure using private networking.
parent: lakeFS Cloud
nav_order: 30
has_children: false
redirect_from: "/cloud.html"
---

> # Private-Link

Reviewer: Per other comment I don't mind what it's called but make sure the term is consistent throughout
```suggestion
# Private Link
{: .no_toc }
```

{: .d-inline-block }
lakeFS Cloud
{: .label .label-green }

{: .note}

> > Private Link is only available for [lakeFS Cloud](../cloud/).

Reviewer: This feels redundant, I think we only need one, WDYT? 

![CleanShot 2023-03-31 at 12 08 54](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3671582/229104746-c2886e71-7b7c-41aa-9ad9-6296837fb487.png)

Private Link enables lakeFS Cloud to interact with your infrastructure using private networking.

{% include toc.html %}

## Supported Vendors

> At the moment, we support Private-Link only on top of AWS.
> 
> Looking for Private Link for Azure or GCP? [Contact us](mailto:support@treeverse.io)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment, we support Private-Link with AWS. If you are looking for Private Link for Azure or GCP please [contact us](mailto:support@treeverse.io).
```

> There are two types of Private Link implementation:

Reviewer: This is missing a section heading

> **Front-End Access** refers to API and UI access. Use this option if you'd like your lakeFS application to be exposed only to your infrastructure and not to the whole internet.
> 
> **Back-End Access** refers to the network communication between the lakeFS clusters we host, and your infrastructure. Use this option if you'd like lakeFS to communicate with your servers privately and not over the internet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Front-End Access** refers to API and UI access. Use this option if you'd like your lakeFS application to be exposed only to your infrastructure and not to the whole internet.

* **Back-End Access** refers to the network communication between the lakeFS clusters we host, and your infrastructure. Use this option if you'd like lakeFS to communicate with your servers privately and not over the internet.
```

> Front-End and Back-End access doesn't have to go together, and they don't conflict one with another, meaning, if you'd like only front-end access to be configured for private access your API, that's possible, same goes for the back-end access or both of them together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The two types of access are not mutually exclusive nor are they dependent on each other.
```

## Setting up Private Link

### Front-End Access

Prerequisites:
* Administrator access to your AWS account
* In order for us to communicate with your account privately, we'll need to create a service endpoint on our end first.

Steps:
1. Login to your AWS account
2. Go to AWS VPC Service
3. Filter the relevant VPC & Navigate to **Endpoints**
4. Click **Create endpoint**
5. Fill in the following:
    * **Name**: lakefs-cloud
    * **Service category**: Other endpoint services
    * **Service name**: input from Treeverse team (see prerequisites)
    * Click **Verify service**
    * Pick the VPC you'd like to expose this service to.
    * Click **Create endpoint**

> Now you can access your infrastructure privately using the endpoint DNS name, if you like, we can associate it with a friendly name, please contact support@treeverse.io for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can access your infrastructure privately using the endpoint DNS name. If you would like to change the DNS name to a friendly one please contact [support@treeverse.io](mailto:support@treeverse.io).
```
